CBS, STATISTICAL ABSTRACT OF ISRAEL ‫ שנתון סטטיסטי לישראל‬,‫למ''ס‬

                                11. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
  Contents of Table
EXPLANATIONS AND DEFINITIONS...................................................... 2
    SOURCES OF DATA AND METHODS OF COMPUTATION ............ 8
    NATIONAL EXPENDITURE .............................................................. 8
  NATIONAL INCOME ........................................................................... 11
  REVISED ESTIMATES ....................................................................... 11
    DEFINITIONS OF WAGES, COMPENSATION AND LABOUR COST
    ......................................................................................................... 14
  INPUT-OUTPUT ................................................................................. 15
  SUPPLY TABLE ................................................................................. 15
    SOURCES OF THE DATA .............................................................. 16
  INTERNATIONAL COMPARISONS.................................................... 16
  PURCHASING POWER PARITY ........................................................ 16
    Explanations and Definitions............................................................ 16
    SOURCES ....................................................................................... 17
  SELECTED PUBLICATIONS .............................................................. 17
    SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS .............................................................. 17
    JUBILEE PUBLICATIONS (on the occasion of Israel’s 50th year) .. 17




NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                   (1)                                  ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
                       EXPLANATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
National Accounts for 1950 to 1995 were compiled according to the
recommendations of the UN Statistical Office in 1968 (United Nations: A
System of National Accounts, Studies in Methods, Series F, No. 2, New York,
1968). The national accounts for 1995 to 2018 are based on the SNA2008
system of national accounts prepared by five international organizations: UN,
IMF, World Bank, OECD and Eurostat (System of National Accounts, 2008,
Commission of the European Communities, International Monetary Fund,
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, United Nations,
World Bank, New York, 2009).
Gross domestic product: The sum of the gross values added of all resident
producers (output less intermediate consumption), plus net taxes (taxes less
subsidies on products) not already included in the value of output. GDP is
also derived as the sum of expenditure on final consumption plus gross
capital formation plus exports less imports. In addition GDP is derived as the
sum of primary incomes distributed by resident producer units: compensation
of employees plus gross operating surplus plus gross mixed incomes plus net
taxes less subsidies on both production and imports.
Until 1995, the definition of gross domestic product was different, and it
excluded net taxes on imports and included revenue components received for
the exports.
Gross domestic product, at market prices, excluding net taxes on
imports: The sum of the gross values added of all resident producers at
producers` prices, plus all non-deductible VAT (or similar taxes), but excluding
net taxes on imports. GDP excluding net taxes on imports is not subject to
fluctuations due to changes in the amount and structure of taxation of foreign
trade. Therefore, it is preferable to analyzing economic changes in the GDP
including net taxes on imports.
Output: The value of goods and services produced by an establishment,
excluding the value of any goods and services used in an activity for which
the establishment does not assume the risk of using the products in
production, and excluding the value of goods and services consumed by the
same establishment (except for goods and services used for fixed capital
formation or changes in inventories or own final consumption). In service
industries, output equals the total compensation received for services that
have been provided. The term “output” is distinguished from the term
“revenue”, which is used extensively in financial reports from the business
sector. Revenue can include income from sale of goods that were not
produced by the reporting establishment.
GDP of the business sector: The GDP of the whole economy, except the
GDP of the general government sector, the GDP of non-profit institutions
serving households, and the GDP of the industry of housing services of
owner-occupied dwellings.
Private consumption expenditure: The aggregate of consumption
expenditure of Israeli households and the consumption expenditure of non-
profit institutions serving households, where the major part of their
expenditure is not financed by the government.
Consumption expenditure of Israeli households: Expenditure of Israeli
resident households for goods and services, including durable goods but
excluding purchase of dwellings, in Israel and abroad.

    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                   (2)                     ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
Consumption expenditure of households in the domestic market: Due to
the lack of detailed current statistics on the consumption of Israelis, the
breakdown of consumption into components relates to the combined domestic
expenditure of all households (both households of Israelis and of foreign
residents) in the domestic market.
General government final consumption expenditure: Expenditure,
including expenditure whose value must be estimated indirectly, incurred by
general government on both individual consumption goods and services and
collective consumption services.
General government final consumption expenditure also equals the value of
its intermediate consumption of goods and services, compensation of
employees, taxes on production (including taxes on wages and employers`
tax) and consumption of fixed capital.
Actual individual consumption (formerly: individual consumption
expenditure): The total value of household final consumption expenditure,
non-profit institutions serving households' final consumption expenditure and
government expenditure on individual consumption goods and services.
A good or service for individual consumption is one that is acquired by a
household and used to satisfy the needs of members of that household.
Collective government final consumption expenditure: Services provided
simultaneously to all members of the community or to all members of a
particular section of the community, such as all households living in a
particular region. Includes expenditure on defence and public order and
general administration expenditure.
Final consumption expenditure: The sum of household final consumption
expenditure, government final consumption expenditure, and final
consumption expenditure of non-profit institutions serving households. Final
consumption expenditure may also be defined in terms of actual final
consumption as the value of all the individual goods and services acquired by
resident households plus the value of the collective services provided by
general government to the community or to large sections of the community.
General government sector: Institutional units which, in addition to fulfilling
their political responsibilities and their role of economic regulation, produce
principally non-market services (possibly goods) for individual or collective
consumption and redistribute income and wealth.
The general government sector in Israel includes the following units:
government ministries, the National Insurance Institute, local authorities,
national institutions, and non-profit institutions, where the above-mentioned
bodies finance the major part of their expenditure.
Gross capital formation (formerly: domestic capital formation): The net
acquisition of produced assets for purposes of fixed capital formation,
inventories or valuables.
Change in inventories: The value of the entries into inventories less the
value of withdrawals and less the value of any recurrent losses of goods held
in inventories during the accounting period, including changes in: (a) stocks of
outputs that are still held by the units that produced them prior to their being
further processed, sold, delivered to other units or used in other ways; and (b)
stocks of products acquired from other units that are intended to be used for
intermediate consumption or for resale without further processing.


    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                    (3)                     ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
Capital stock: Includes tangible productive capital as well as intangible
productive capital. Accordingly, capital stock does not include non-productive
capital or financial assets. It also excludes inventories of raw materials,
finished goods and work-in-progress.
Gross capital stock: The stock of fixed assets surviving from past
investment and revalued at the purchasers' prices of the current period. This
stock increases every year by the addition of gross domestic investment, and
decreases by the value of assets whose economic life has ended.
Net capital stock: The sum of the written-down values of all fixed assets still
in use. It can also be described as the difference between gross capital stock
and accumulated consumption of fixed capital.
Consumption of fixed capital: The decline, during the course of the
accounting period, in the current value of the stock of fixed assets owned and
used by a producer as a result of physical deterioration, normal obsolescence
or normal accidental damage.
Gross fixed capital formation: The total value of a producer's acquisitions,
less disposals, of fixed assets during the accounting period plus certain
specified expenditures on services that add to the value of non-produced
assets.
Fixed capital formation of business companies, as well as companies from the
government sector and non-profit institutions, is included.
Included are acquisitions of durable goods (except land and mineral deposits)
for civilian use; work in-progress on construction projects; major
improvements; road construction and other infrastructure projects; outlays on
improvements to land and fruit plantations. Also included are intangible assets
(acquisitions and own production of software, expenditure on exploration of
minerals - oil and gas, and expenditure on research and development).
Expenditure by the General Government on construction and equipment for
military use is not included.
Gross domestic capital formation in infrastructure: Used for the entire
economy, and includes buildings, construction work, and equipment in the
following industries: transportation (including sea ports and airports, railways,
and roads), communications, energy (including electricity, petroleum, and
gas), water (including water, sewage, desalinization of sea water), and
advance development (including preparation of area for businesses).
National balance sheet: A summary of the balance sheets of the domestic
sectors in the economy. A breakdown of the value of assets and liabilities in
the institutional sectors and in the overall economy at a given point in time.
Exports and imports of goods and services
Goods include: goods for final use; goods for processing; goods procured in
foreign ports by domestic carriers; and non-monetary gold.
Services include: transport; travel; communications; construction; insurance;
financial services; computer and information services; royalties and licence
fees; other business services; personal, cultural, and recreational services;
and government services that were not included in the above-mentioned
items.
Exports of goods and services: Sales, barter, or gifts or grants, of goods
and services by residents to non-residents.
Until 1995, the definition of exports included the components of compensation
received by exporters.

    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                    (4)                     ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
Imports of goods and services: Purchases, barter, or receipt of gifts or
grants, of goods and services by residents from non-residents.
Until 1995, the definition of imports of goods and services included net taxes
on imports.
Income received from abroad/paid abroad: Includes compensation of
employees and income from property, as well as entrepreneurial income (from
interest, dividends, and profits from reinvestment of foreign earnings) and
interest paid for the public sector. Until 1995, this item did not include
payments and receipts of interest of the public sector.
Property income: The sum of investment income and rent.
Gross national income (GNI): Gross national income (GNI) is defined as
GDP plus net compensation of employees and property income receivable
from abroad, plus taxes less subsidies on production receivable from abroad
(that is, the GDP plus net primary income from abroad). GNI can also be
measured at market prices as the aggregate value of the balances of gross
primary income for all sectors. GNI is identical to GNP as previously used in
national accounts.
Net national income (NNI): The aggregate value of the net balances of
primary incomes summed over all sectors. Net national income equals gross
national income after the deduction of consumption of fixed capital.
Net domestic product (NDP): Gross domestic product minus consumption of
fixed capital.
Operating surplus: The surplus or deficit accruing from production before
taking into account any interest, rent or similar charges payable on financial or
tangible non-produced assets borrowed or rented by the enterprise, or any
interest, rent or similar receipts receivable on financial or tangible non-
produced assets owned by the enterprise.
Net national disposable income: Net national income plus all current
transfers in cash or in kind receivable by resident institutional units from non-
resident units minus all current transfers in cash or in kind payable by resident
institutional units to non-resident units.
Primary incomes: Incomes that accrue to institutional units as a result of
their involvement in processes of production or ownership of assets that may
be needed for purposes of production.
Disposable income: Disposable income is derived from the balance of
primary incomes of an institutional unit or sector by adding all current
transfers, except social transfers in kind, receivable by that unit or sector and
subtracting all current transfers, except social transfers in kind, payable by
that unit or sector. This item is the balance in the distribution of secondary
incomes account.
Private disposable income is equal to national income less taxes on
income, contributions to national insurance and property income paid to the
general government, plus interest payments and other transfers received by
the private sector from the government and from abroad.
Adjusted private disposable income: Private disposable income plus
current transfers in kind.
Net national saving: The difference between national disposable income at
market prices and private and general government consumption expenditures.
Net private saving: Defined as the difference between private disposable
income and private consumption expenditure. It includes the savings of

    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                    (5)                     ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
households, savings of private non-profit institutions whose expenditures are
not financed mainly by the government, as well as net saving of the business
sector.
Net saving of the general government: In the current account, net saving
of the general government is the difference between current receipts and
current expenditures of the general government.
Surplus on current transactions with the rest of the world: Calculated as
the excess of current receipts over current disbursements in respect to
transactions between Israel and the rest of the world.
A positive surplus means that the amount of national savings is higher than
the domestic capital formation. In this case, Israel participates (directly or
indirectly) in financing capital formation abroad. This is done through net
capital transfers, net acquisition of intangible assets, and/or net acquisition of
foreign financial assets. In the reverse case, when expenditures are higher
than receipts, Israel uses foreign sources to finance the domestic capital
formation.
Transfer: A transaction in which one institutional unit provides a good, service
or asset to another unit without receiving from the latter any good, service or
asset in return as a direct counterpart.
Current transfer: A transaction in which one institutional unit provides a
good, service or asset to another unit without receiving from the latter any
good, service or asset directly in return as counterpart and does not oblige
one or both parties to acquire, or dispose of, an asset.
Transfers received from abroad or paid abroad are converted into Israeli
currency at the official exchange rate.
Social transfer in kind (formerly: Current transfers in kind): Goods and
services provided to households by government and NPIs, either free or at
prices that are not economically significant.
Capital transfer: Capital transfers are unrequited transfers where the party
making the transfer either realises the funds involved by disposing of an asset
(other than cash or inventories), relinquishing a financial claim (other than
accounts receivable) or the party receiving the transfer is obliged to acquire
an asset (other than cash) or both conditions are met.
Taxes: Compulsory unrequited payments, in cash or in kind, made by
institutional units to government units.
Taxes on income: Taxes on income, profits and changes in the value of
capital.
a. Taxes on income - from wages, property, capital gains, entrepreneurship,
    and pensions, as well as levies on financial assets, on equity of
    enterprises and on ownership of goods.
b. Payments to the National Insurance Institute - both by the insured and by
    the employer.
c. Mandatory payments for Israeli passports, court fees, etc.
Taxes and duties on imports: Taxes on goods and services that become
payable at the moment when those goods cross the national or customs
frontiers or when those services are delivered by non-resident producers to
resident institutional units.
Other taxes on production: Includes all taxes (except taxes on products)
that are incurred as a result of engaging in production.


    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                     (6)                     ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
Other taxes on production include: taxes on payroll; recurrent taxes on land,
buildings, and other structures; business and professional licenses; taxes on
use of fixed assets; stamp taxes; taxes on pollution; and taxes on international
transactions.
Taxes on products: Taxes payable per unit of a certain good or service.
Capital taxes: Taxes levied at irregular and infrequent intervals on the value
of assets or net worth owned by institutional units, or on the value of assets
transferred between institutional units as a result of legacies, gifts inter vivos,
or other transfers.
Subsidies: Subsidies are current unrequited payments that government units
(including Israeli government units abroad) make to enterprises on the basis
of the levels of their production activities or the quantities or values of the
goods or services that they produce, sell or import. In addition to the direct
current subsidies, this item also includes the subsidy component of loans to
finance current activities, which are granted by the government to producers
under preferential conditions at interest rates lower than those of the market
(e.g., loans from export funds). However, this item does not include subsidies
in the form of non-recurrent loans or loans that are not granted on a regular
basis. The grant component in these loans is defined as capital transfer.
These capital transfers are presented in Table 11.10.
Subsidy on a product: A subsidy payable per unit of goods or services.
Treatment of Value Added Tax in the product account, at market prices:
The value of domestic uses of resources - private and general government
consumption and capital formation - and the value of imports, including net
VAT, i.e., VAT paid less VAT refunded.
The purchaser’s price: The amount paid by the purchaser, excluding any
deductible VAT or similar deductible tax, in order to take delivery of a unit of a
good or service at the time and place required by the purchaser. The
purchaser’s price of a good includes any transport charges paid separately by
the purchaser in order to receive the delivery at the required time and place.
The basic price: The amount receivable by the producer from the purchaser
for a unit of a good or service produced as output minus any tax payable, and
plus any subsidy receivable, by that unit as a consequence of its production or
sale. It excludes any transport charges invoiced separately by the producer.
The CIF price (cost, insurance and freight): The price of a good delivered
at the frontier of the importing country, including any insurance and freight
charges incurred to that point, or the price of a service delivered to a resident,
before the payment of any import duties or other taxes on imports or trade
and transport margins within the country.
The FOB price (free on board): The market value of the goods at the point
of uniform valuation (the customs frontier of the economy from which they are
exported). It is equal to the CIF price less the costs of transportation and
insurance charges, between the customs frontier of the exporting (importing)
country and that of the importing (exporting) country.
Classification of product (by industry) in the national accounts is based
on the Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities, 2011,
Technical Publication No. 80, with the following differences:
Agriculture. In the national accounts, the agricultural product is the difference
between agricultural output of goods defined as agricultural produce, and
inputs purchased from other industries. The classification is by goods and not

    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                     (7)                      ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
by establishments (agricultural farms), which are classified in the Standard
Classification of All Economic Activities, 2011 by their main industry.
Imputed housing services: An item that is included in the product
classification, but that does not exist in the Standard Classification of
Economic Activities, 2011. This item comprises income deriving from housing
services in residential dwellings owned by their tenants.
Non-profit institutions (NPIs) are divided into two types: (a) Public NPIs -
institutions where the major part of their expenditure is financed by the
government sector; and (b) NPIs serving households – institutions where the
major part of their expenditure is not financed by the government sector.
SOURCES OF DATA AND METHODS OF COMPUTATION
NATIONAL EXPENDITURE
General government consumption expenditure is estimated on the basis
of analyses of the Accountant General's budget performance reports as well
as the budget provisions, and by addition of complementary data received
from the Ministries of Finance and of Defence. The consumption expenditure
of local authorities, national institutions, and non-profit institutions is estimated
on the basis of data obtained from analysis of their financial and budget
reports.
Private consumption expenditure: As of 1964, the results of the family
expenditure surveys, which cover (since 1968/69) all urban families, were
included in private consumption estimates. Estimates for previous years were
based on the results of household expenditure surveys that covered only
urban households of employees. The tables present two estimates for 1964,
which was the year of transition.
The estimate of food consumption is based on data on marketing of
agricultural produce, data on production and marketing of industrial food
products and their prices, and data from the Household Expenditure Survey.
The estimated expenditure for industrial products other than food is based on
the Household Expenditure Survey, as well as on data on production and
marketing of industrial products to the domestic market, and on foreign trade
statistics.
The estimate consumption of housing is based on the findings of household
expenditure surveys as well as on data on the increase in the area of
residential building and data on changes in the prices of housing services.
Many of the estimates in the item "other services" are based on the findings of
household expenditure surveys and on interpolation according to various
indicators for the years between the surveys. Other estimates (such as
electricity supply, person-nights in hotels and visits to cinema) are based on
the relevant quantity and price data.
Estimates of gross capital formation in fixed assets and capital stock are
based mainly on the following:
    a) Data on imports of machinery, equipment, and transportation vehicles;
    b) Reports on revenue from sales of investment goods from domestic
        production;
    c) Quarterly estimates of the area of construction begun and construction
        completed.
    d) Data received from government ministries, public institutions and major
        enterprises on the extent of their investments.


    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                      (8)                       ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
    e) The Research and Development Survey, which estimates the
        expenditures of the business sector on research and development
        activities.
    f) Estimates of gross and net capital stock and consumption of fixed
        capital (which also include data on investments for the current year)
        relate to 31 December of each year. The data are taken from a
        quarterly system, in which the annual estimates of gross capital stock
        and net capital stock are the data of the fourth quarter of each year,
        and the estimate of consumption of fixed capital is the sum of the four
        quarters of each year.
Estimates of change in stocks are based on:
    a) Data held by the government on quantities of agricultural produce
        stocks, stocks of fuel, and stocks of essential products;
    b) Data from the industry and crafts surveys on the value of stocks held
        by enterprises;
    c) The estimated change in stocks of diamonds is based on the difference
        between exports and imports at constant prices.
    d) Value of unsold output in start-up companies for software and R&D,
        estimated on the basis of data on investments of venture capital funds
        in these companies.
Imports and exports of goods and services: Estimates are based on data
from the balance of payments (Chapter 12 – International Accounts, and
Chapter 13 – Imports and Exports of Goods and Services).
Estimates of changes in the number of employed persons, employees,
and work hours of employed persons and employees in Israel are
generally based on the findings of the Labour Force Survey in Israel.
Estimates for workers from the Palestinian Authority who are employed in
Israel were based on data from the Labour Force Survey conducted by the
Palestinian Authority. Prior to 1996 the data were based on findings from
households surveys in Judea, Samaria and the Gaza Area as well as on data
from the Employment Service.
The estimate of the number of foreign workers is derived from a calculation of
the net number of arrivals to Israel of foreign residents from developing
countries who are not tourists, new immigrants, diplomats, or students.
Compensation of employees: Obtained by calculating the sum of labour
costs in each industry, based on manufacturing surveys such as the Survey of
Industry. For activities where no survey was carried out, estimates are based
on administrative reports such as employers' reports to the National Insurance
Institute or the reports of the Accountant General.
Compensation of non-employees (employed persons who are not
employees - employers, self-employed persons, members of co-operatives
and kibbutzim, and unpaid workers in a family-operated enterprise):
Estimated by multiplying the number of work hours by the average
compensation of employees per hour in the relevant industry.
Constant price estimates for the continuous series of the GDP and its
components at 1995 prices (Table 11.1), for 1950-1995, were compiled
separately for each main expenditure item (consumption, capital formation,
etc.) and for the Gross Domestic Product by chaining the annual quantitative
changes, which were obtained at prices of various base years. The estimates
for 1995 to 2018 (Table 11.2) were computed at the prices of the previous

    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                   (9)                     ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
year, and chained at 2015 prices. As a result of chaining, the estimates of
each component group of the GDP do not add up to the total expenditure on
the GDP.
Private consumption estimates at constant prices were obtained either directly
by using quantitative data, or indirectly by deducting the current price values
in the appropriate price indices.
For general government consumption estimates, quantitative changes in the
expenditure on wages were computed according to the change in the labour
inputs. Other current expenditures were generally deflated by the wholesale
price indices of industrial output, which were weighted according to
characteristic production activities of the various expenditure items.
The gross capital formation estimate at constant prices was based on the
building cost index and the equipment price index in Israel and in the principal
countries of import.
Estimates of imports and exports of goods at constant prices are obtained by
multiplying the value of imports or exports in US dollars at constant prices by
the exchange rate effective during the base year. Data are calculated in US
dollars at constant prices, according to dollar indices specified for main
commodities. Estimates of imports and exports of services at constant prices
are computed by deflating current price estimates using price indices
specified by type of service.
Non-profit institutions (NPIs): The value of the income and expenditure of
NPIs is estimated on the basis of data relating to: income from sales, income
from current and capital transfers, labour cost, other current expenditures, etc.
These data are obtained from surveys that are based on analysis of financial
reports of a sample of NPIs. The surveys conducted in 1991, 2004, 2006,
2009, 2011, 2013 and 2015 included all NPIs in Israel. The surveys
conducted in other years covered the four major fields of activity. As of 2011,
the field of welfare activities was added to the annual surveys.
National balance sheet: Non-financial fixed assets were recorded in
accordance with net capital stock estimates, which were prepared by the
Central Bureau of Statistics in accordance with the distribution of these assets
among institutional sectors.
The sources of data for calculation of the financial assets of the different
sectors were:
a. The Survey of Trade, Services, Transport, Communications and
    Construction Survey, the Manufacturing Survey, and the Non-
    Profit Institutions Survey of the Central Bureau of Statistics.
b. The Bank of Israel, Supervisor of Banks, Annual Information on
    the Banking Corporations.
c. Financial statements of the Bank of Israel and the various banks.
d. Reports of the Ministry of Finance, Capital Market Department.
e. Data from the Israel Stock Exchange.
f. Financial statements of the Israeli government.
g. Ministry of the Interior – Report on Financial Data of Local
    Authorities.
If no sources of information were available on the assets and liabilities of a
given institutional sector such as the sector of households, two methods were
used to prepare the national balance sheets:


    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                   (10)                     ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
- The “counterpart” method - assets and liabilities were recorded
   according to their value in the balance sheet of other institutional
   units in the economy that hold parallel assets and liabilities. This
   was done because every asset or liability must have a parallel
   asset or liability.
- The “residual derivation” method - if the amount of the asset or
   liability held by one sector is known, then it is calculated by
   deducting the amounts of assets and liabilities held by the other
   sectors from the total value of the asset or liability.
                               NATIONAL INCOME
The total national income is estimated by summing of the income (net
product) derived from each industry.
In most industries (agriculture, manufacturing, construction, and commerce),
an estimate of total accrued income is obtained by deducting the estimate of
purchased inputs from the output estimate. In other industries, income is
measured directly by summing up payments to production factors, i.e.,
payments of wages and salaries, interest, rent and lease fees, and net profit.
REVISED ESTIMATES
In the 2019 Statistical Abstract, revised estimates were introduced for the
period 1995-2018, in comparison with data published in the previous
Statistical Abstract. The revisions were introduced after receipt of updated
data. Furthermore, methodological improvements were made in order to
adapt the national accounts of Israel to international requirements.
The main revisions entered into the estimates are:
       1. Revision of the private consumption series:
a. Estimates of private consumption expenditure on various
   manufacturing and services and on food products for 2017-
   2018 were updated following integration of the findings from
   the 2016 Household Expenditure Survey.
b. Estimates of expenditures for services were updated in 1995-
   2018 for the following items: Financial intermediation services
   indirectly measured (FISIM), expenditures for financial
   services and life insurance policies, based on the data from
   the Capital Market Division at the Ministry of Finance. In
   addition, estimates of expenditures of Israelis abroad and
   expenditures of foreign residents in Israel were updated
   following updates in the Balance of Payments.
c. Car maintenance expenditures as a wage benefit were
   updated for 1995-2018, based on data of kilometers travelled
   from the Ministry of Transport file and the number of jobs from
   the employees’ income tax files for 2017.
d. Estimates of expenditure on services at a price lower than
   market price were revised for 1995-2018.
e. Estimates of expenditures on internal flights for 2006-2018
   were revised on the basis of data on the movement of
   passengers to Elat obtained from the Airport Authority.
f. Expenditure on travel by train was updated for 2018
   according to data from Israel Railways, and the data on the
   travel of soldiers, which is deducted from passenger income,
   was updated as well.

    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                   (11)                    ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
g. The expenditure on energy for the propulsion of vehicles has
   been revised for 2006-2018, which were based on the
   Ministry of Transport's motor vehicles file, which includes data
   on the kilometers travelled of vehicles, divided by type of
   ownership and type of car motor. In addition, expenditure on
   fuel for home use have been revised for 2006-2018.
h. Estimates of expenditures for housing were updated for 2016-
   2018 on the basis of Household Expenditure Surveys,
   combined with estimates based on the Dwellings Register.
i. Estimates of expenditures for food, beverages, and tobacco
   relating to 2006-2018 were updated on the basis of updates
   in the expenditure on agricultural food products: fruit and
   vegetables for 2017-2018 were updated based on data of the
   Plants Production and Marketing Board.
j. Estimates of expenditures for purchases of imported and
   second-hand vehicles were updated once again for 2018 on
   the basis of the Vehicle Register of the Ministry of Transport
   and Road Safety for 2018.
k. Estimates of expenditures for electricity consumption were
   updated on the basis of publications of the Israel Electric
   Corporation for 2018.
l. Estimates of expenditures of Israelis on websites abroad
   (personal imports of goods) were updated for the period
   2006-2018 on the basis of revisions of reports from credit
   card clearing companies and following the revision of the
   import price index with the addition of the impact of changes
   in currency exchange rates.
       2. Revisions of estimates of general government
          consumption expenditure:
a. The general government consumption estimates were revised
   as of 1995. The revision was carried out after receipt of final
   financial reports from the central government, the National
   Insurance Institute, local authorities, national institutions, and
   non-profit institutions.
b. Following receipt of the above-mentioned reports, the rest of
   the series in the general government sector were also
   updated as of 1995, such as: data on income from property,
   data on income from taxes, current transfer payments, capital
   account transfers, gross fixed capital formation, etc.
       3. Revision of the series of gross capital formation and
          capital stock:
a. Estimates of capital formation in construction as of 2009
     were adjusted on the basis of updated data on the
     construction area upon completion of residential buildings
     and non-residential buildings. Also, data on capital formation
     of local authorities, as well as capital formation in roads and
     in other construction projects were updated on the basis of
     new reports received.
b. Revision of estimates of capital formation in intellectual
     property: The data on capital formation in own production of

    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                     (12)                     ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
    software as of 2016 were updated on the basis of updated
    data received on wages. The data on capital formation in
    R&D for 2016 were updated on the basis of the latest data
    from the R&D Surveys and the survey of imports and
    exports of services.
      4. Revision of the estimates of imports and exports of goods
         and services:
a. Imports and exports of goods and services were updated for the period
   2007-2018, according to revisions in the Balance of Payments, which
   included the following regarding exports: Updating data on international
   trade in goods that do not cross Israel’s borders, and a revision due to
   expanding the correlation between the data on trade in goods and the
   direct reports of additional companies; regarding imports the revisions
   included an estimate of purchases of goods by Israelis from sites abroad
   that are not included in customs data.
b. Estimates of imports and exports of tourism services from 2017-2018 were
   updated in accordance with revisions to the Balance of Payments, which
   were based on a new estimate calculated by the tourism statistics sector.
c. Imports and exports of business services were revised for 2013-2018, in
   accordance with revisions in the Balance of Payments.
d. Indices of imports and exports and other business services were updated
   for 2014-2018 due to revisions published by the USA Bureau of Economic
   Analysis.
e. Income received and paid abroad was revised in 2018 following the receipt
   of revised data from the Bank of Israel.

     5. Changes to Table 11.9 (Revenue and Expenditure of
        Government, Local Authorities, National Institutions and
        Governmental Non-Profit Institutions):
  The series Revenue from Assets was revised due to methodological
  changes made in accordance to the requirements of international
  guidelines to calculate the data on nominal interest. Until now, the
  revenue from government sector assets that was published was
  calculated using the real method, i.e. without indexation differentials
  From now on, Revenue from Assets will include indexation
  differentials. The revision was made for 1995-2018.
     6. Revisions to the estimates of the product by industry in
        the national accounts:
  a. The product of industries was updated in accordance with data from the
     2016 survey of industries.
  b. The adjustments to the survey data were newly calculated, with
     increased industry breakdown, in order to bring them into line with the
     updated, accepted international definitions.
  c. The product of Agriculture was updated in accordance with data on
     agriculture in Israel for 2018, which were published by the Agriculture,
     Environment, and Energy sector at the Central Bureau of Statistics.
  d. The product of the Construction industry was updated in accordance
     with revised estimates of capital formation in construction, as indicated in
     Section 3, revised series of gross capital formation.


    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                   (13)                     ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
      7. Estimates of the national expenditure on education are presented
          in Chapter 4 - Education; estimates of the national expenditure on
          research and development in Chapter 17 – Science, Technology and
          Communications; estimates of the national expenditure on health are
          presented in Chapter 3 - Health; estimates of the national expenditure
          on culture, entertainment and sports are presented in Chapter 5 -
          Culture, Entertainment and Sport; and estimates of the public
          expenditure on environmental protection are presented in Chapter 22
          - Environment. Data on government expenditures and expenditures
          of national institutions and local authorities according to purpose
          appear in Chapter 25 – General Government Sector.
DEFINITIONS OF WAGES, COMPENSATION AND LABOUR COST
This chapter presents all of the definitions of wages and labour compensation
that appear in various chapters of the Statistical Abstract. The definitions are
based on the international guidelines for recording wage expenditure and
labour cost, as presented in the Manual on National Accounts SNA2008, and
on the publications of the International Labour Organization (ILO).
   1. Gross wages: Remuneration in cash or in kind payable by an
       employer to an employee in return for work done during the accounting
       period, including compensation for time that the employee did not work,
       such as yearly vacation, absences, and other paid vacations.
       Wages include:
       Remuneration in cash: Payments such as basic wages, cost-of-living
       allowances, seniority payments, advance payments, overtime,
       premiums, various benefits, allowances, grants and supplements
       (current or non-recurring) such as: on-call, shifts, 13th-month salary,
       transportation, education and proficiency allowances, car allowance,
       and convalescence pay.
       Remuneration in kind: Payments such as contributions for car benefits,
       for mobile phones, holiday gifts, courses, on-the-job training, and travel
       abroad.
       Wages do not include:
       Social contributions payable by employers such as: pension funds,
       provident funds, study funds, national insurance, and health insurance.
       Wages also do not include severance payments.
       Wage data published by the Central Bureau of Statistics are based on
       administrative information or financial reports from companies or
       households.
   2. Supplementary expenses for wages and salaries (employers’
       social contributions): These include social contributions payable by
       employers, such as: actual contributions to the National Insurance
       Institute, to pension plans, provident funds, study funds, etc. In
       addition, these expenses include imputed contributions to pension
       expenses for employees, which derive from the employer’s obligation
       to pay the workers’ retirement pensions instead of contributing to
       pension funds, for example, imputed contributions to budgetary
       pension schemes for civil servants.
   3. Taxes on wages and salaries: Taxes levied on employers for wage
       and salary expenses, such as payroll tax and employers’ tax.


    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                   (14)                     ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
     4. Other components of labour cost: Expenses for vocational training,
         welfare, recruiting workers, and providing work clothes, maintaining a
         cafeteria, payments to professional organizations, etc.
     5. Compensation of employees / compensation for employee jobs
         (formerly: Compensation of employees): Compensation of
         employees is defined as the total expenditure for wages and salaries
         and supplementary expenditures for wages and salaries (items 1+2).
     6. Imputed compensation of non-employees / imputed compensation
         for non-employee jobs (formerly: Imputed compensation of non-
         employees): Compensation of non-employees (employed persons
         who are not employees - employers, self-employed persons, members
         of cooperatives, kibbutz members, and unpaid workers in household
         enterprises) is the imputed value estimated as the number of work
         hours multiplied by average compensation of employees per hour in
         the industry that they are employed in.
     7. Compensation of employed persons / compensation for jobs
         (formerly: Compensation of employed persons) Compensation of
         employed persons/compensation for jobs includes compensation of
         employees/employee jobs and the imputed value of compensation of
         non-employees/non-employee jobs (items 5+6).
     8. Labour cost: Labour cost includes compensation of
         employees/employee jobs, taxes on wages and salaries, and other
         components of labour cost (items 4+3+5). There may be cases in
         which reported labour costs include only compensation of employees
         and taxes on wages and salaries (items 3+5). In those cases, it is
         recommended to classify the item as a labour cost for employees as
         well.
                                  INPUT-OUTPUT
                                  SUPPLY TABLE
                                    (Table 11.23)
Table 11.23 presents data on the supply of the Israeli economy for 2015 and
2016. The Supply Table is part of a system of supply and demand tables that
follows the United Nations recommendations presented in A System of
National Accounts, Studies in Methods.
The table was published in accordance with the Standard Industrial
Classification of All Economic Industries 2011, and is based on the last Input-
Output table which was prepared for 2006.
Aims of the table:
a. To present a detailed analysis of the production process in the
    economy.
b. To provide a framework for examining the consistency of the
    statistical system on the flow of goods and services received
    from various sources – industry surveys and foreign trade
    statistics.
The Supply Table presents data on the total sources that were available to the
economy in a given year, both from imports and from local output. Sources
are listed according to characteristic groups of commodities produced in each
industry – in basic prices and in purchaser’s prices. The basic prices are the
cost prices, including subsidies but not including expenses for marketing,
transport, and taxes. Purchaser’s prices are obtained by summing up the

    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                  (15)                     ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
supply data in basic prices, marketing and transport margins, and net taxes.
Import data are presented according to the CIF value, including transport and
insurance, but they are adjusted to the FOB value. The adjustment to the FOB
value is calculated by deducting transport and insurance expenses in Israeli
companies. For further information, see the 2006 Input-Output tables on the
CBS website.
SOURCES OF THE DATA
Output at basic prices: The output for 2015 is based on data from
agricultural statistics, the surveys of industries, and national accounts
estimates of output in the Construction industries, government, national
institutions, local authorities, and nonprofit organizations (public and private).
Output data for 2016 were estimated on the basis of the 2015 survey of
industries, and changes in revenue were based on VAT data, as well as on
indices of Manufacturing, Mining and Quarrying.
Imports: Based on detailed data on imports of goods and service
transactions.
Net taxes: Based on data about taxes on imports within the system of foreign
trade, and of the National Accounts estimates of taxes on domestic
production, less subsidies for products.

                       INTERNATIONAL COMPARISONS
                        PURCHASING POWER PARITY
                               (Tables 11.24-11.29)
Explanations and Definitions
This paragraph presents comparisons of statistical data on Israel with data on
other countries, particularly countries that are members of the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Different countries tend
to publish their data using definitions and formats that are convenient for
them. Therefore, in order to solve problems related to the accuracy of
comparisons, this chapter presents information that is usually taken from the
sources of international organizations such as the United Nations, OECD,
ILO, etc., which prepare data in a way that allows for comparison.
The international comparisons project was conducted for 47 countries: 35
countries participating in the comparative research project conducted jointly
by the OECD-Eurostat were members of the OECD, and 12 countries were
not members.
The project was coordinated jointly by the OECD and the statistics office of
the European Union (Eurostat). The aim of the project was to conduct an
international comparison of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and its
component expenditure per capita.
For that purpose, special currency conversion rates - Purchasing Power
Parities (PPPs) – were constructed, which provide a basis for conversion to a
common currency and equalizing the purchasing power of different countries.
The GDP, which is calculated by the PPP, is in fixed prices and the
differences in the GDP levels between countries reflect only differences in the
volume of goods and services purchased.
The price level and volume indices (expenditure per capita) were calculated
on the basis of the average of the 35 member countries of the OECD.
Price level indices - were derived by dividing the value of the Purchasing
Power Parity (PPP) of each country by its regular exchange rate.

    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                    (16)                     ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
Volume indices – were derived by dividing the average GDP per capita in
each one of the countries, by the average of all the countries participating in
the calculation.
SOURCES
The data in Tables 11.24-11.27 are based on estimates, and were derived
from the publications of the OECD. Israel participate in the project as a full
member of the OECD, therefore, estimates for Israel were also calculated by
the OECD in the same way as the estimates for the other countries.
The data presented in Tables 11.28 and 11.29 relate to 2014, and were
collected in 2014-2016. To calculate the PPPs, data on prices were collected
for a broad range of goods and services (approximately 3,000 items),
according to specific definitions determined for all of the countries
participating in the project. For services provided to households at a reduced
rate or free of charge, data on input prices were collected. In order to weight
the PPP value and to calculate the product and expenditure items, the
relevant expenditure data in the national accounts were used.

                          SELECTED PUBLICATIONS
SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS
1016 Non-Profit Institutions in Israel 1991
1077 Survey of Income and Expenditures of Non-Profit Institutions, 1980-
     1996
1097 National Accounts of Israel 1950-1997
1099 Gross Domestic Fixed Capital Formation 1950-1997
1151 International Comparison Programme (ICP) - International Comparison
     of Gross Domestic Product and the Main Expenditure Components in
     Terms of Purchasing Power Parities (PPP), 1996
1425 Survey of Products and Materials in Manufacturing 2006
     Survey of Import Destinations 2006 (Internet only)
1453 National Balance Accounts 2009
1467 Supply and Use Table 2006 and Supply Table 2007-2008
1508 Survey of Trade, Services, Transport, Communications and
     Construction 2009
1510 Manufacturing Survey 2009
1561 Input-Output Tables, 2006
1742 National Accounts 1995-2017
1753 Private Consumption Expenditure by Industry 1995-2017
1748 General Government Sector Accounts, 2000-2017
JUBILEE PUBLICATIONS (on the occasion of Israel’s 50th year)
National Accounts (No. 3 in the series)




    NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                   (17)                     ‫חשבונות לאומיים‬
