                                                                                                        1




  Israel

This country note provides an overview of key characteristics of the education system in Israel based on
Education at a Glance 2024. In line with the thematic focus of Education at a Glance 2024, it highlights
issues of equity in education. Data in this note are provided for the latest available year as indicated in
Education at a Glance 2024.


The output of educational institutions and the impact of learning

   •   Adults without upper secondary qualification are at considerable risk of poor social and labour-
       market outcomes throughout their lives. Reducing the share of young adults without an upper
       secondary qualification has been a priority in many countries and their share has decreased
       between 2016 and 2023 in 28 out of 35 OECD member countries. However, this is not the case in
       Israel. Their share of 25-34 year-olds without upper secondary educational attainment increased
       by 1 percentage point between 2016 and 2023. At 9%, it is 5 percentage points below the OECD
       average in 2023 (Figure 1).
   •   The difficult labour-market situation faced by workers without an upper secondary qualification is
       reflected in employment rates among 25-34 year-olds. In Israel, 56% of 25-34 year-olds without
       an upper secondary qualification are employed, compared to 69% of those with an upper
       secondary or post-secondary non-tertiary qualification. The corresponding OECD averages are
       61% and 79%, respectively. Moreover, workers without an upper secondary qualification are at risk
       of earning very low wages in most OECD countries. In Israel, 27% of 25-64 year-olds with below
       upper secondary educational attainment earn at or below half the median income compared to
       21% of workers with upper secondary or post-secondary non-tertiary educational attainment and
       13% of workers with a tertiary qualification. Across the OECD, the respective shares are 28%, 17%
       and 10%.
   •   Strong labour markets and increasing participation in education have led to a decline in the share
       of 18-24 year-olds who are neither in employment nor in education or training (NEET) in most
       OECD member countries. Across the OECD, the average NEET rate decreased from 15.8% to
       13.8% between 2016 and 2023. In Israel, the share of NEETs decreased from 17.4% to 16.8%.
   •   By almost all available measures, girls and women have better educational outcomes than boys
       and men, and in many cases the gap is widening. This is reflected in gender gaps in educational
       attainment. In all OECD member countries, women aged 25-34 are as likely or more likely than
       their male peers to have a tertiary qualification (54% compared to 41% on average across OECD
       countries). With a tertiary educational attainment rate of 56% for women and 36% for men, the gap
       is much wider than the OECD average in Israel.
   •   Although girls and women clearly outperform boys and men in education, the picture is reversed
       when they enter the labour market; the key measures of labour-market outcomes are generally
       worse for women than for men. Women aged 25-34 are less likely to be employed than men, with
                                                                                                                           2
         the gap typically widest for those with below upper secondary educational attainment and
         narrowest for those with tertiary attainment. In Israel, only 41% of young women with educational
         attainment below upper secondary educational level are employed, while the corresponding share
         for young men is 66% (the corresponding OECD averages are 47% and 72%). In contrast, 88% of
         young women with a tertiary qualification are employed, while the corresponding share for young
         men is 90% (the corresponding OECD averages are 84% and 90%). However, tertiary attainment
         does not help to reduce the wage gap between men and women. Across the OECD, young women
         with a tertiary qualification earn on average 83% of the wage of their male peers, while the
         corresponding fraction is 69% in Israel. Among those with upper secondary or post-secondary non-
         tertiary attainment, young women earn on average 84% of the wage of their male peers across the
         OECD and 73% in Israel.


Figure 1. Trends in the share of 25-34 year-olds with below upper secondary educational
attainment (2016 and 2023)
In per cent




1. The OECD average is derived from the unweighted mean of all countries with available and comparable data for both years.
Countries are ranked in descending order of the share of 25-34 year-olds with below upper secondary attainment in 2023.
Source: OECD (2024), Table A1.2. For more information see Education at a Glance 2024 Sources, Methodologies and Technical Notes
(https://doi.org/10.1787/e7d20315-en).
                                                                                                        3
Access to education, participation and progression

  •   Childcare and parental leave policies vary considerably between countries. Of particular
      importance for low-income families is the so-called childcare gap, the period between the end of
      paid parental leave and the start of free early childhood education and care or compulsory
      education. In eight OECD countries, there is no childcare gap as free early childhood education or
      compulsory education starts immediately following the end of paid parental leave. In contrast, Israel
      has a childcare gap of 3 years between the end of paid parental leave and the start of free
      compulsory education.
  •   Early childhood education can help to reduce the developmental gaps that put some children at a
      disadvantage when they enrol in primary school. In most OECD countries, the large majority of
      children are enrolled in early childhood education one year before the start of primary education.
      In Israel, 97% of children in this age group are enrolled, compared with an OECD average of 96%.
  •   Although most children and youths participate in education in the years before and after
      compulsory education, not all do so. In order to increase enrolment in the early years or among
      youths, twelve OECD member and accession countries have increased the duration of compulsory
      education over the past decade. Israel does not belong to this group. Compulsory education in
      Israel lasts from the age of 3 to 17 for a total of 14 years, which is above the OECD average of 11
      years (Figure 2).
                                                                                                                                4
Figure 2. Duration of compulsory education (2022)
In years




Note: The year in parentheses indicates when policy changes were made to the duration of compulsory education. In addition, extended
ECEC/extended upper secondary refers to the extension in the duration of the relevant level since 2013.
1. There are other compulsory activities to complete by the end of compulsory education (see Table B2.1).
2. Starting age, ending age, and duration of compulsory education may vary at sub-national level.
Countries are ranked in descending order of the duration of compulsory education.
Source: OECD (2024), Table B2.1. For more information see Education at a Glance 2024 Sources, Methodologies and Technical Notes
(https://doi.org/10.1787/e7d20315-en).


    •      Grade repetition is common in many countries to give students more time to master the content of
           a grade, although its effectiveness is debated. In Israel, 0.8% of primary, 1.1% of lower secondary
           and 3.2% of general upper secondary students repeat a grade in their current level of education,
           while the OECD average is 1.5% at primary, 2.2% at lower secondary and 3.2% at general upper
           secondary level.
    •      The likelihood of tertiary students successfully completing their studies depends on their family
           background. In Israel, 83% of students with at least one parent with tertiary attainment successfully
           completed their tertiary studies within three years of the theoretical end of the programme, while
           only 75% of students whose parents had less than upper secondary education did so.
    •      Women are significantly over-represented in tertiary education and the gap is widening in most
           countries. In Israel, 58% of new entrants to tertiary education are women, compared with an OECD
           average of 56%. As women are also more likely than men to complete tertiary education, the gap
           is even greater among graduates (see Education at a Glance 2022). However, there are large
                                                                                                         5
        differences between fields of study in all OECD countries. In Israel, 19% of women entering tertiary
        education were studying science, technology, engineering and mathematics fields, while only 9%
        of men were entering education-related fields.
    •   Across the OECD, 63% of students who graduated with a bachelor's degree did so from public
        institutions. However, private education is slowly becoming more common across all levels of
        tertiary education and the share of graduates from private institutions has grown by 3 percentage
        points between 2013 and 2022. In Israel, the share of bachelor's graduates from private institutions
        decreased from 89% to 81%.




Financial resources invested in education

    •   The average annual expenditure per student from primary to tertiary education (including R&D) in
        Israel is USD 11 111 compared to an average of USD 14 209 in OECD countries. In most
        countries, expenditure increases by level of education. In Israel, spending per student is
        USD 11 327 in primary education, USD 10 464 in secondary education and USD 12 239 in tertiary
        education (Figure 3).1
    •   Israel spends 6.1% of its gross domestic product (GDP) on educational institutions at primary to
        tertiary levels (including R&D). This is more than the OECD average of 4.9% of GDP. On average
        across the OECD, the share of GDP dedicated to educational institutions (from primary to tertiary
        levels) has been broadly stable, with 4.9% in 2015 and 2021. However, trends vary considerably
        between countries. Israel is among the countries where expenditure as a share of GDP remained
        roughly constant at 6.1%.
    •   Early childhood education has received much attention in recent years because of its importance,
        especially for children from disadvantaged families. In Israel, public investment in early childhood
        education relative to GDP has increased by 8% between 2015 and 2021. Across the OECD, it has
        increased on average by 9% over this period.




1
 All expenditure figures in this note are expressed in USD calculated based on purchasing power parity
(PPP) exchange rates.
                                                                                                                           6
Figure 3. Total expenditure per full-time equivalent student in primary, secondary and tertiary
education (2021)
In equivalent USD converted using PPPs, expenditure on educational institutions




1. Primary education includes pre-primary and lower secondary programmes.
Countries are ranked in descending order of the total expenditure per full-time equivalent student in primary education.
Source: OECD (2024), Table C1.1. For more information see Education at a Glance 2024 Sources, Methodologies and Technical Notes
(https://doi.org/10.1787/e7d20315-en).


    •    Across the OECD, public authorities are responsible for the vast majority of spending on education,
         particularly at compulsory levels. In Israel, 96% of total expenditure on primary institutions comes
         from public sources, which is above the OECD average of 93%. Private expenditure makes up a
         greater share in pre-primary and tertiary education in many countries. In Israel, the share of public
         expenditure on pre-primary education is 92%, above the OECD average of 86%, while for tertiary
         education it is 57%, compared to an OECD average of 68%.
    •    How private institutions are funded varies considerably across countries, with some fully or largely
         government funded, while others receive little or no public funding. In Israel, government sources
         spend USD 13 276 per full-time equivalent student in public primary institutions, while the figure is
         USD 3 218 per full-time equivalent student in private ones (the OECD averages are USD 11 914
         for public primary institutions and USD 7 867 for private ones).
    •    Tuition fees are an important component of private expenditure on tertiary education, but they vary
         considerably across countries. In Israel, with USD 3 088 per year for national students in bachelor’s
         programmes, they are in the middle of the range among OECD countries for which data are
         available.
                                                                                                                                  7
Teachers, the learning environment and the organisation of schools

    •    In 2023, actual salaries of lower secondary teachers in Israel reached USD 54 430 (compared to
         USD 56 462 on average across OECD countries), 74% higher than the minimum statutory salary
         (starting salary with minimum qualifications) of USD 31 201. The difference between actual salaries
         and the minimum statutory salaries results partly from the structure of the teacher population (by
         qualification and experience) as this affects the level of statutory salaries, but also from the amount
         of additional work-related payments (bonuses and allowances for performing certain tasks)
         (Figure 4).


Figure 4. Lower secondary teachers’ average actual salaries compared to the statutory minimum
and maximum salaries (2023)
Annual salaries of teachers in public institutions, in equivalent USD converted using PPPs for private consumption




Note: Actual salaries include bonuses and allowances.
1. Actual salaries for minimum and maximum statutory salaries.
2. Year of reference for actual salaries differs from 2023. Refer to the source table for more information.
Countries and other participants are ranked in descending order of the starting salaries for teachers with the minimum qualifications.
Source: OECD (2024), Table D3.3 and the OECD Data Explorer, https://data-explorer.oecd.org/. For more information see Education at a
Glance 2024 Sources, Methodologies and Technical Notes (https://doi.org/10.1787/e7d20315-en).
                                                                                                                                     8
     •    The work of teachers consists of a variety of tasks including teaching, but also preparing lessons,
          grading assignments and communicating with parents. The number of hours that teachers are
          contractually obliged to teach varies greatly across countries. In Israel, teachers at lower secondary
          level have to teach 692 hours annually. This is similar the OECD average of 706 hours per year.
     •    Student-teacher ratios vary between countries and between levels of education. On average
          across the OECD, there are 14 students per teacher in primary education, 13 students in lower
          secondary education and 13 students in upper secondary education. In Israel, the corresponding
          numbers are 15 in primary education, 13 in lower secondary education and 11 in upper secondary
          education. While lower student teacher ratios allow teachers to focus more on the needs of the
          individual, they require higher overall spending on teacher salaries and have to be weighed against
          alternative spending priorities.
     •    Between 2013 and 2022, the average age of teachers has increased across the OECD. In lower
          secondary education, 36% of teachers are 50 years or older, compared to 35% in 2013. Israel has
          fewer teachers aged 50 or older, with only 31% of teachers being in this age category, up from
          28% in 2013.


More information

For more information on Education at a Glance 2024 and to access the full set of indicators, see:
https://doi.org/10.1787/c00cad36-en.
For more information on the methodology used during the data collection for each indicator, the references
to the sources and the specific notes for each country, see Education at a Glance 2024: Sources,
Methodologies and Technical Notes (https://doi.org/10.1787/e7d20315-en).
For general information on the methodology, please refer to the OECD Handbook for Internationally
Comparative Education Statistics 2018 (https://doi.org/10.1787/9789264304444-en).
Updated data can be found on line at http://data-explorer.oecd.org/s/5q and by following the
StatLinks 2 in the publication.
Explore, compare and visualise                       more      data      and     analysis       using     the    Education       GPS:
https://gpseducation.oecd.org/.
Questions can be directed to the Education at a Glance team at the OECD Directorate for Education and
Skills: EDU.EAG@oecd.org.


This work is published under the responsibility of the Secretary-General of the OECD. The opinions expressed and arguments
employed herein do not necessarily reflect the official views of the Member countries of the OECD.

This document, as well as any data and map included herein, are without prejudice to the status of or sovereignty over any territory,
to the delimitation of international frontiers and boundaries and to the name of any territory, city or area.

The statistical data for Israel are supplied by and under the responsibility of the relevant Israeli authorities. The use of such data by
the OECD is without prejudice to the status of the Golan Heights, East Jerusalem and Israeli settlements in the West Bank under the
terms of international law.
                                                                                                                                  9
              Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0)
This work is made available under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International licence. By using this work, you accept to be
bound by the terms of this licence (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Attribution – you must cite the work.
Translations – you must cite the original work, identify changes to the original and add the following text: In the event of any
discrepancy between the original work and the translation, only the text of original work should be considered valid.
Adaptations – you must cite the original work and add the following text: This is an adaptation of an original work by the OECD. The
opinions expressed and arguments employed in this adaptation should not be reported as representing the official views of the OECD
or of its Member countries.
Third-party material – the licence does not apply to third-party material in the work. If using such material, you are responsible for
obtaining permission from the third party and for any claims of infringement.
You must not use the OECD logo, visual identity or cover image without express permission or suggest the OECD endorses your
use of the work.
Any dispute arising under this licence shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA)
Arbitration Rules 2012. The seat of arbitration shall be Paris (France). The number of arbitrators shall be one.
