              PISA




       PISA 2022 Results

           Factsheets


             Israel




PUBE
                                                                                                                                      1




 Israel

The Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) assesses the knowledge and skills of 15-
year-old students in mathematics, reading and science. The tests explore how well students can solve
complex problems, think critically and communicate effectively. This gives insights into how well education
systems are preparing students for real life challenges and future success. Israel participated for the first
time in PISA in 2002. By comparing results internationally, policy makers and educators in Israel can learn
from other countries’ policies and practices.


How well did 15-year-old students in Israel do on the test?

Trends in mathematics, reading and science performance

Figure 1. Trends in performance in mathematics, reading and science




Note: White dots indicate mean-performance estimates that are not statistically significantly above/below PISA 2022 estimates. Black lines
indicate the best-fitting trend. An interactive version of this figure is available at https://oecdch.art/a40de1dbaf/C738.
Source: OECD, PISA 2022 Database, Tables I.B1.5.4, I.B1.5.5 and I.B1.5.6.


     •    Average 2022 results were about the same as in 2018 in mathematics, reading and science.
     •    When considering all PISA assessments conducted in the country, PISA 2022 average scores in
          mathematics were below those observed in 2015, but higher than those observed in 2006. In
          reading, too, average scores were higher than in 2006, and close to those observed in all more
          recent assessments. In science, the overall trend can be described as flat – neither improving, nor
          declining.




PISA 2022 RESULTS: FACTSHEETS – ISRAEL © OECD 2023
2

     •    Over the most recent period (2018 to 2022), the gap between the highest-scoring students
          (10% with the highest scores) and the weakest students (10% with the lowest scores) did not
          change significantly in mathematics, reading and science. In mathematics, performance remained
          close to prior levels for both high- and low-achievers.
     •    Compared to 2012 the proportion of students scoring below a baseline level of proficiency (Level 2)
          did not change significantly in mathematics; increased by six percentage points in reading; and did
          not change significantly in science.

How does Israel compare?

Figure 2. Mean performance in mathematics, reading and science in PISA 2022
Israel, OECD average and selected comparison countries




Notes: Comparison countries include the six highest-performing countries in each subject and the five countries with the largest population of
15-year-old students.
Horizontal lines that extend beyond the markers represent a measure of uncertainty associated with mean estimates (the 95% confidence
interval).
Source: OECD, PISA 2022 Database, Tables I.B1.2.1, I.B1.2.2 and I.B1.2.3.


     •    Students in Israel scored less than the OECD average in mathematics and science, and close to
          the OECD average in reading.
     •    A similar number of students in Israel, to the average across OECD countries, were top performers
          (Level 5 or 6) in at least one subject. At the same time a smaller proportion of students than on
          average across OECD countries achieved a minimum level of proficiency (Level 2 or higher) in all
          three subjects.

What students know and can do in mathematics

     •    In Israel, 63% of students attained at least Level 2 proficiency in mathematics, significantly less
          than on average across OECD countries (OECD average: 69%). At a minimum, these students
          can interpret and recognize, without direct instructions, how a simple situation can be represented
          mathematically (e.g. comparing the total distance across two alternative routes, or converting
          prices into a different currency). Over 85% of students in Singapore, Macao (China), Japan, Hong



                                                                         PISA 2022 RESULTS: FACTSHEETS – ISRAEL © OECD 2023
                                                                                                           3

         Kong (China)*, Chinese Taipei and Estonia (in descending order of that share) performed at this
         level or above.
    •    Some 8% of students in Israel were top performers in mathematics, meaning that they attained
         Level 5 or 6 in the PISA mathematics test (OECD average: 9%). Six Asian countries and economies
         had the largest shares of students who did so: Singapore (41%), Chinese Taipei (32%), Macao
         (China) (29%), Hong Kong (China)* (27%), Japan (23%) and Korea (23%). At these levels,
         students can model complex situations mathematically, and can select, compare and evaluate
         appropriate problem-solving strategies for dealing with them. Only in 16 out of 81 countries and
         economies participating in PISA 2022 did more than 10% of students attain Level 5 or 6 proficiency.


Figure 3. Top performers and low-performing students in mathematics, reading and science




Note: Numbers inside the figure correspond to percentages.
Source: OECD, PISA 2022 Database, Tables I.B1.3.1, I.B1.3.2 and I.B1.3.3.


What students know and can do in reading

    •    Some 70% of students in Israel attained Level 2 or higher in reading (OECD average: 74%). At a
         minimum, these students can identify the main idea in a text of moderate length, find information
         based on explicit, though sometimes complex criteria, and can reflect on the purpose and form of
         texts when explicitly directed to do so. The share of 15-year-old students who attained minimum
         levels of proficiency in reading (Level 2 or higher) varied from 89% in Singapore to 8% in Cambodia.
    •    In Israel, 11% of students scored at Level 5 or higher in reading (OECD average: 7%). These
         students can comprehend lengthy texts, deal with concepts that are abstract or counterintuitive,
         and establish distinctions between fact and opinion, based on implicit cues pertaining to the content
         or source of the information.

What students know and can do in science

    •    Some 68% of students in Israel attained Level 2 or higher in science (OECD average: 76%). At a
         minimum, these students can recognize the correct explanation for familiar scientific phenomena
         and can use such knowledge to identify, in simple cases, whether a conclusion is valid based on
         the data provided.




PISA 2022 RESULTS: FACTSHEETS – ISRAEL © OECD 2023
4

     •    In Israel, 6% of students were top performers in science, meaning that they were proficient at Level
          5 or 6 (OECD average: 7%). These students can creatively and autonomously apply their
          knowledge of and about science to a wide variety of situations, including unfamiliar ones.


     A special edition of PISA
     This PISA test was originally due to be conducted in 2021 but was delayed by one year because of the
     COVID-19 pandemic. The exceptional circumstances throughout this period, including lockdowns and
     school closures in many countries, led to occasional difficulties in collecting some data. While the vast
     majority of countries and economies met PISA’s technical standards, a small number did not. A country
     or economy in this note with an asterisk (*) next to its name means that caution is required when
     interpreting estimates because one or more PISA sampling standards were not reached. Further
     information can be found in the Reader’s Guide and in Annexes A2 and A4 of the main report.
     In Israel, all data met the quality standards set by PISA and were considered fit for reporting.



Performance gaps within Israel

Socio-economic divides

Figure 4. Mean performance in mathematics, by international quintiles of socio-economic status




Note: The size of markers is proportional to the share of the student population within each quintile of socio-economic status (as determined by
the PISA index of economic, social and cultural status, ESCS). Quintiles are defined at the international level, to include 20% of PISA participants
in each quintile; within each national sample, the proportion can therefore differ from 20%.
Vertical bars that extend beyond the markers represent a measure of uncertainty associated with each estimate (the 95% confidence interval).
Horizontal, dashed lines represent the uncertainty associated with the mean score of the largest group of students (as defined by international
quintiles) within Israel.
Source: OECD, PISA 2022 Database, Tables I.B1.4.6 and I.B1.4.8.


     •    The PISA index of economic, social and cultural status is computed in such a way that all students
          taking the PISA test, regardless of the country where they live, can be placed on the same socio-
          economic scale. This means that it is possible to use this index to compare the performance of
          students of similar socio-economic background in different countries. In Israel, 49% of students


                                                                            PISA 2022 RESULTS: FACTSHEETS – ISRAEL © OECD 2023
                                                                                                        5

       (the largest share) were in the top international quintile of the socio-economic scale, meaning that
       they were among the most advantaged students who took the PISA test in 2022. Their average
       score in mathematics was 504 score points. In Estonia and Japan, students of similar socio-
       economic background tend to score significantly higher.
   •   The PISA index of economic, social and cultural status can also be used to order students from
       the most disadvantaged to the most advantaged within each country and economy, and to create
       four groups of students of equal size (each comprising 25% of the population of 15-year-old
       students in each country/economy). In Israel socio-economically advantaged students (the top
       25% in terms of socio-economic status) outperformed disadvantaged students (the bottom 25%)
       by 124 score points in mathematics. This is larger than the average difference between the two
       groups (93 score points) across OECD countries.
   •   Between 2012 and 2022, the gap in mathematics performance between the top and the bottom
       25% of students in terms of socio-economic status remained stable in Israel, as well as across
       OECD countries on average.
   •   Socio-economic status was a predictor of performance in mathematics in all PISA participating
       countries and economies. It accounted for 20% of the variation in mathematics performance in
       PISA 2022 in Israel (compared to 15% on average across OECD countries).
   •   Some 8% of disadvantaged students in Israel were able to score in the top quarter of mathematics
       performance. These students can be considered academically resilient because, despite their
       socio-economic disadvantage, they have attained educational excellence by comparison with
       students in their own country. On average across OECD countries, 10% of disadvantaged students
       scored in the top quarter of mathematics performance in their own countries.

Gender differences in performance

   •   Boys outperformed girls in mathematics by 11 score points; girls outperformed boys in reading by
       23 score points in Israel. Globally, in mathematics, boys outperformed girls in 40 countries and
       economies, girls outperformed boys in another 17 countries or economies, and no significant
       difference was found in the remaining 24. In reading, girls, on average, scored above boys in all
       but two countries and economies that participated in PISA 2022 (79 out of 81).
   •   In Israel, the share of low performers is similar among boys (37%) and girls (37%) in mathematics;
       in reading, however, the share is larger among boys (25% of girls and 34% of boys scored below
       Level 2 in reading). When it comes to top performers, the share is larger among boys (12%) than
       among girls (5%) in mathematics; in reading, however, the share is similar among girls (10% of
       girls and 11% of boys scored at Level 5 or 6 in reading).
   •   Between 2012 and 2022, performance in mathematics remained stable both among boys and girls
       in Israel.


Immigrant background and student performance

   •   Immigrant students are defined as students whose parents were born in a country/economy other
       than that where the student took the PISA test. Students with an immigrant background can be
       distinguished between first- and second-generation immigrants. First-generation immigrants are
       those who were also born outside the country of assessment; second-generation students are
       students born in the country of assessment but whose parent(s) were born outside the country of
       assessment.
   •   The share of immigrant students has decreased in Israel to 15% in 2022 (18% in 2012). In 2022,
       4% of 15-year-old students were first-generation immigrants, meaning that they were born in


PISA 2022 RESULTS: FACTSHEETS – ISRAEL © OECD 2023
6

         another country/economy, and their families moved to Israel only in recent years. Among these
         first-generation immigrant students, 46% arrived in Israel at or before age 5; 18% arrived after age
         12, and after completing the elementary grades in another education system.
     •   Immigrant students in Israel tend to have a more disadvantaged socio-economic profile than non-
         immigrant students; while 25% of all students are considered socio-economically disadvantaged,
         the corresponding share among students with an immigrant background is 30%. Some 50% of
         immigrant students (and 4% of all remaining students) reported that the language they speak at
         home most of the time is different from the language in which they took the PISA assessment.
     •   In mathematics, the average difference in performance between immigrant and non-immigrant
         students was 13 score points in favour of non-immigrant students, a significant difference. After
         accounting for students’ socio-economic profile, a not significant difference was observed.
     •   In reading, the average difference in performance between immigrant and non-immigrant students
         was 24 score points in favour of non-immigrant students, a significant difference. After accounting
         for students’ socio-economic profile, a not significant difference was observed.


How is school life in Israel?

Support and discipline in mathematics lessons

     •   In Israel, 64% of students reported that, in most mathematics lessons, the teacher shows an
         interest in every student’s learning (OECD average: 63%), and 69% that the teacher gives extra
         help when students need it (OECD average: 70%). In 2012, the corresponding shares were 59%
         and 66%. Mathematics results in 2022 tended to decline less, on average, in education systems
         where more students reported that teachers give extra help when students need it, compared to
         ten years earlier.
     •   Many students study mathematics in a disciplinary climate that is not favourable to learning: in
         2022, about 28% of students in Israel reported that they cannot work well in most or all lessons
         (OECD average: 23%); 30% of students do not listen to what the teacher says (OECD average:
         30%); 31% of students get distracted using digital devices (OECD average: 30%); and 24% get
         distracted by other students who are using digital devices (OECD average: 25%). On average
         across OECD countries, students were less likely to report getting distracted using digital devices
         when the use of cell phones on school premises is banned.

Feeling safe at and around school

     •   PISA 2022 data show that in education systems where performance remained high and students’
         sense of belonging improved, students tended to feel safer and less exposed to bullying and other
         risks at their school.

Parental involvement in learning

     •   PISA data collected from school principals show that the percentage of parents who were involved
         in school and learning decreased substantially between 2018 and 2022 in many
         countries/economies. This was not the case in Israel. In 2022, 42% of students in Israel were in
         schools whose principal reported that during the previous academic year at least half of all families
         discussed their child’s progress with a teacher on their own initiative (and 64% on the teacher’s
         initiative). In 2018, the corresponding number was 44% (and 74%). Systems that had more positive
         trends in parental involvement between 2018 and 2022 (i.e. systems in which the share of parents



                                                         PISA 2022 RESULTS: FACTSHEETS – ISRAEL © OECD 2023
                                                                                                          7

       who discussed their child’s progress with a teacher on their own initiative shrank less) tended to
       show more stable or improved performance in mathematics.

Learning during COVID-related school closures

   •   In Israel, 50% of students reported that their school building was closed for more than three months
       due to COVID-19. On average across OECD countries, 51% of students experienced similarly long
       school closures. In education systems where performance remained high and students’ sense of
       belonging improved, fewer students experienced longer school closures.
   •   During remote learning, 39% of students in Israel had problems at least once a week with
       understanding school assignments and 27% of students with finding someone who could help them
       with schoolwork (OECD averages: 34% and 24%). In education systems where performance
       remained high and students’ sense of belonging improved, fewer students encountered problems
       during remote learning.
   •   Support for students’ well-being was often limited when their schools were closed. In Israel, 64%
       of students reported that they were supported daily through live virtual classes on a video
       communication program. Only 16% of students reported that they were asked daily, by someone
       from the school, how they were feeling (OECD averages: 51% and 13%).
   •   If school buildings have to close again in the future, many students across the OECD feel confident
       about using digital technology for learning remotely but fewer students feel confident about taking
       responsibility for their own learning. Some 74% of students in Israel feel confident or very confident
       about using a video communication program and 48% of students feel confident or very confident
       about motivating themselves to do school work (OECD averages: 77% and 58%).


What else does PISA tell us?

Resources invested in education

   •   Expenditure on education is related to student performance only to a certain extent. Among the
       countries/economies whose cumulative expenditure per student, over all primary and secondary
       school years between the ages of 6 and 15, was under USD 75 000 (PPP) in 2019, higher
       expenditure on education was associated with higher scores in the PISA mathematics test. But this
       was not the case among countries/economies whose cumulative expenditure was greater than
       USD 75 000 (PPP). For this latter group of countries/economies, the ways in which financial
       resources are used seems to matter more for student performance than the level of investment in
       education. In Israel, the cumulative expenditure per student, over ten years of age between 6 and
       15, was equivalent to about USD 94 400 (PPP).
   •   In about half of all countries/economies with comparable data, school principals in 2022 were more
       likely than their counterparts in 2018 to report a shortage of teaching staff. This was not the case
       in Israel. In 2022, 46% of students in Israel were in schools whose principal reported that the
       school’s capacity to provide instruction is hindered by a lack of teaching staff (and 44%, by
       inadequate or poorly qualified teaching staff). In 2018, the corresponding proportions were 38%
       and 34%. In most countries/economies, students attending schools whose principal reported
       shortages of teaching staff scored lower in mathematics than students in schools whose principal
       reported fewer or no shortages of teaching staff.




PISA 2022 RESULTS: FACTSHEETS – ISRAEL © OECD 2023
8

How students progress through schooling

     •   When they sat the PISA test in 2022, 84% of 15-year-old students in Israel were enrolled in 10th
         grade.
     •   In Israel, 98% reported that they had attended pre-primary education for one year or more (OECD
         average: 94%). On average across OECD countries, students who had attended pre-primary
         education for one year or more scored higher in mathematics at the age of 15 than students who
         never attended or who had attended for less than one year, even after accounting for socio-
         economic factors.
     •   Some 8% of students in Israel reported that they had repeated a grade at least once (OECD
         average: 9%) after entering primary school. Grade repetition tends to be less prevalent in high
         performing systems.

School autonomy

     •   In Israel, 79% of students attended a school where principals had the main responsibility for hiring
         teachers (OECD average: 60%), and 80% were enrolled in a school where teachers had the main
         responsibility for choosing which learning materials are used (OECD average: 76%). Many high-
         performing school systems tend to entrust principals and teachers with these responsibilities.


Key features of PISA 2022

The content

     •   The PISA 2022 survey focused on mathematics, with reading and science as minor areas and
         creative thinking as the innovative area of assessment. PISA 2022 also included an assessment
         of young people’s financial literacy, which was optional for countries and economies. Results for
         mathematics, reading and science are released on 5 December 2023 and results for creative
         thinking and financial literacy in 2024.

The students

     •   Some 690 000 students took the assessment in 2022, representing about 29 million 15-year-olds
         in the schools of the 81 participating countries and economies.
     •   In Israel, 6251 students, in 193 schools, completed the assessment in mathematics, reading or
         science, representing about 132 500 15-year-old students (an estimated 90% of the total
         population of 15-year-olds).

The assessment

     •   Students took two hour-long tests, each devoted to one subject. Different students were given
         different test questions and different combinations of subjects (e.g. mathematics followed by
         reading, or science followed by mathematics, etc.). Test items were a mixture of multiple-choice
         questions and questions requiring students to construct their own responses.
     •   Students also answered a background questionnaire, which took about 35 minutes to complete.
         The questionnaire sought information about the students themselves, their attitudes, dispositions
         and beliefs, their homes, and their school and learning experiences. School principals completed
         a questionnaire about school management, organisation, and the learning environment.




                                                        PISA 2022 RESULTS: FACTSHEETS – ISRAEL © OECD 2023
                                                                                                                   9

   •   Some countries/economies also distributed additional questionnaires, to students, parents and/or
       teachers, to elicit more information. The findings from these optional questionnaires are not
       covered by this note.


References

OECD (2023), PISA 2022 Results (Volume I): The State of Learning and Equity in Education, PISA, OECD
Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/53f23881-en
OECD (2023), PISA 2022 Results (Volume II): Learning During – and From – Disruption, PISA, OECD
Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/a97db61c-en

   This work is published under the responsibility of the Secretary-General of the OECD. The opinions
   expressed and arguments employed herein do not necessarily reflect the official views of the Member
   countries of the OECD.
   This document, as well as any data and map included herein, are without prejudice to the status of or
   sovereignty over any territory, to the delimitation of international frontiers and boundaries and to the
   name of any territory, city or area.

For more information about PISA 2022 visit www.oecd.org/pisa
Explore, compare and visualise more data and analysis using http://gpseducation.oecd.org.
Questions can be directed to the PISA team at the Directorate for Education and Skills:
edu.pisa@oecd.org.
This note was written by Francesco Avvisati and Rodolfo Ilizaliturri, Directorate for Education and Skills.

       This work is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 IGO (CC BY-
       NC-SA 3.0 IGO). For specific information regarding the scope and terms of the licence as well as possible
       commercial use of this work or the use of PISA data please consult Terms and Conditions on www.oecd.org.




PISA 2022 RESULTS: FACTSHEETS – ISRAEL © OECD 2023
