Report of the State Comptroller of Israel | May
2023



Ministry of Education

Differential Budgeting
as a Tool for
Minimizing Gaps in
the Education System
                                       Report of the State Comptroller of Israel | May 2023




                                                                                                    Abstract | Differential Budgeting as a Tool for Minimizing Gaps in the Education System
Differential Budgeting as a Tool for
Minimizing Gaps in the Education System



For many years, the education system in Israel has been characterized by considerable gaps
between students of all age groups, mostly between high socio-economic and low socio-
economic students, between Jewish and Arab students, and between students who study in
the state education school system and state-religious education school system and those who
study in ultra-orthodox institutions. There are gaps in the resources that the Ministry of
Education, the local authorities, and the households provide to the students and in the
students' academic achievements. These gaps severely and continually impair the
development and progress of low socio-economic students and the state's economic growth,
making it more difficult to solve social problems and distress.

During the 1960s, the Ministry of Education contended with the education system gaps
through differential allocation of public resources to students based on socio-economic
classification. The differential components of the Ministry of Education's resource allocation
have been consolidated over the years in elementary and junior-high schools to minimize gaps
in the education system. In 2014, a new differential budgeting model was developed for
elementary and junior-high education, and it has been applied since September 2014 until
this very day.

Differential budgeting aims to advance students from low socio-economic backgrounds and
bridge the budgetary gap created as their families and local authorities of low socio-economic
status allocate less resources to these students.

The differential budgeting model is based on the Ministry of Education's policy and plan to
minimize gaps and to advance equality in the education system through additional study hours
(cultivation hours) to the basic standard hours (allocated equally to all schools according to
binding regulations). The addition is differential and granted to elementary and junior high
schools according to the students' socio-economic status at each school.




                                                                                              | 221 |
                Differential Budgeting as a Tool for Minimizing Gaps in the Education System




          NIS 1.09
                                     15%−19% 16%     15%
          billion                    20%−30% and 19% and 30%
          the budgetary cost         PISA tests' achievement               budget gaps per             the average
          of the cultivation         gaps between students                 student from the            budgetary gaps in
          hours allocated to         from high socio-economic              lowest                      elementary
          elementary                 backgrounds and students              cultivation quintile        education between
          education in the           from low socio-economic               in the elementary           a Jewish student in
          2021−2022 school           backgrounds and between               and junior-high             the state education
          year (from                 Jewish and Arab students,             education between           school system and
          September 2021 to          respectively                          Jewish and Arab             the state-religious
          August 2022), as                                                 students,                   education school
          opposed to NIS                                                   respectively                system with a
          10.67 billion − the                                                                          student in an ultra-
          overall cost of the                                                                          orthodox institution,
          total hours allocated                                                                        respectively
          to elementary
          education in that
          year



                                                                           NIS 13.8
          10.2%                      NIS 3,400                             billion                     59%
          cultivation rate           the gap in the average                national                    the rate of
          hours out of the           budget per student across             expenditure on              elementary schools
          total standard hours       all education phases,                 education from              and junior high
          allocated to               between local authorities             private sources in          schools (423 out of
          elementary                 from high socio-economic              2021                        711 schools) in the
          education in the           clusters (9−10) and local                                         lowest cultivation
          2021−2022 school           authorities from low socio-                                       quintile that did not
          year                       economic clusters (1 –2)                                          take part in the
                                                                                                       Marom Program 1 ,
                                                                                                       which cost between
                                                                                                       September 2015 to
                                                                                                       August 2022 at
                                                                                                       about NIS 140
                                                                                                       million




      1       Prior to the implementation of the differential budgeting model, the Ministry of Education devised a complementary
              plan for students who study at schools that need cultivation, alongside allocation of additional resources to these
              schools as part of differential budgeting.



| 222 |
                                     Report of the State Comptroller of Israel | May 2023




                                                                                                   Abstract | Differential Budgeting as a Tool for Minimizing Gaps in the Education System
Audit Actions
  From February 2022 to August 2022, the State Comptroller Office audited the Ministry
  of Education's differential budgeting since the 2014−2015 school year to minimize gaps
  in the education system. The audit included the schools' budget sources and their
  transparency, set in the government resolution from 2013; the budget gaps of
  educational institutions with different socio-economic students and different sectors and
  the gaps between the student's academic achievements; the "gap minimizing and
  equality advancement program," formation, assessment and impact, based on the
  differential budgeting model for elementary and junior-high education since 2014; the
  quality of teachers and its effect on the utilization of the resources for gap minimization;
  and the implementation of the Marom Program that supports schools in low socio-
  economic backgrounds and which complements the differential allocation of resources
  to these schools.

  The examination was conducted at the Economics & Budgets Administration, Tel-Aviv
  District, Southern District, Haifa District of the Ministry of Education, and several
  elementary and junior high schools. Supplementary examination was conducted at the
  Local Government Audit Division of the Ministry of Interior.




Key Findings

  The Impact of the Budget Minimizing Plan on Budget Distribution in
  Elementary Education – from September 2014 to August 2021, the number of
  students in elementary education increased from about 963,000 to about 1.09 million
  (13% increase), the rate of standard hours increased between 2014−2015 school year
  and 2021−2022 school year was about 14% (from 1.21 to 1.38 million hours) and the
  rate of cultivation hours allocated out of them increased from about 6% to about 10%
  (from 69,000 to 141,000 hours). Following the complete implementation of the gap-
  minimizing plan, the gap in elementary education in the 2019−2020 school year was
  about NIS 5,320 in favor of students from the low cultivation quintile who need the most
  significant level of cultivation (the budget for such a student was about NIS 19,650),
  compared to students from the highest cultivation quintile who need less cultivation (the
  budget for such a student was NIS 14,330). However, about 80% of that gap (NIS 3,740)
  had been reached before implementing the gap-minimizing plan. Thus, the plan's impact
  on increasing the gap in favor of students from the low cultivation quintile was relatively
  minor − it increased it only by 25% (about NIS 1,580). It is doubtful that the above
  increase is sufficient to substantially minimize educational gaps between students from
  the lowest and highest cultivation quintiles.



                                                                                             | 223 |
           Differential Budgeting as a Tool for Minimizing Gaps in the Education System




          Gaps in Standard Hours Allocation and Ministry of Education's Budget – the
          rate of cultivation hours allocated in the 2021−2022 school year for elementary and
          junior high schools' education out of the total number of standard hours was about 12%
          (222,700 cultivation hours out of 1.86 million standard hours). Standard hours and
          budget for elementary and junior high education in the 2019−2020 school year were
          allocated progressively amongst the quintiles. As for standard hours per class (which
          include basic standard hours and additional standard hours), 36 hours per class were
          allocated in elementary education for the highest cultivation quintile and 44 hours per
          class for the low cultivation quintile; in junior high, 46 hours per class were allocated for
          the highest cultivation quintile and 53 hours per class were allocated for the low
          cultivation quintile. Nevertheless, there are gaps between the Jewish and the Arab sector
          − in favor of the Jewish sector at the level of basic budgeting for each of the quintiles
          and it increased due to the additional hours from 5%−11% (1.7−3.7 standard hours per
          class) to 8%−12% (2.9−5.1 standard hours per class) in elementary education, and
          from 5%−6% (1.8−2 standard hours per class) to 8%−20% (3.6−10.4 standard hours
          per class) in junior high. The lower the quintile, the higher the inter-sectoral gap. As for
          the Jewish sector, the average budget per student in the state education school system
          and state-religious education school system in the 2019−2020 school year was about
          NIS 15,940 and NIS 17,950, respectively, compared to NIS 13,810 per student in ultra-
          orthodox institutions (ultra-orthodox educational networks) − a gap of 15% and 30%,
          respectively.

          The Characteristics of Gap Minimizing and Advancement of Equality in the
          Education System's Plan – the gap minimizing plan from 2014 intended to lead a
          multi-annual strategic process of gap minimization in the education system through a
          substantial change in the budgeting model and, as a complementary move −
          development of a multi-annual plan intended to provide pedagogical and organizational
          support to low socio-economic schools. Despite the designated plan included in the inter-
          ministerial team's report from 2014, the Ministry of Education has not defined clear and
          measurable objectives for minimizing academic achievements and additional pedagogical
          variables gaps between educational institutions requiring different cultivation levels. In
          addition, it has not formed appropriate output and outcome metrics, enabling it to
          examine progress over time and assess the model's effectiveness. Moreover, for
          necessary updates, it has not formed or operated a mechanism for multi-annual tracking
          and monitoring of the plan's implementation and impact. Furthermore, the Ministry of
          Education has not defined an integrative entity to implement the gap-minimizing plan,
          examine its impact, and conduct necessary changes until its goal is met.

          Deducting Cultivation Hours in Favor of the Integration Reform – in the 2018–
          2019 school year, the Ministry of Education started uniformly deducting 7% of cultivation
          hours granted to elementary schools as part of the differential budgeting model and 9%
          of the cultivation hours granted to junior high schools. This is to allocate additional hours
          to integrate students with special needs into regular classrooms. In the 2021–2022



| 224 |
                                    Report of the State Comptroller of Israel | May 2023




                                                                                                    Abstract | Differential Budgeting as a Tool for Minimizing Gaps in the Education System
school year, about 11,000 hours were deducted from 152,000 cultivation hours in
elementary schools in favor of integration and containment and about 8,400 hours were
deducted from 90,000 cultivation hours in junior high schools. Using the differential
budget designated for minimizing gaps in the educational system for other school needs,
as essential as they are, interferes with the allocation of necessary cultivation hours to
schools that rank high on the cultivation index. Therefore, the Ministry of Education
decision to deduct a fixed quota of cultivation hours in favor of integration hours
consistently decreased the annual quota of cultivation hours (de facto) in the Ministry's
budget to be allocated amongst schools and thus weakened the progressive element in
the gap minimizing plan intended to compensate students from a low socio-economic
background according to the cultivation index.

The Influence of Local Authorities' Education Budgets and Households'
Education Expenditure on the Gaps in the National Allocation of Resources on
Education – the local authorities' education budget was about NIS 25.2 billion in 2020.
Most of the budget, NIS 17.5 billion (69%), originates from the Ministry of Education,
and the rest, NIS 7.7 billion (31%), was funded by other local authorities' sources. The
gaps between local authorities of low socio-economic status and those of high socio-
economic status in expenditure per student reach thousands of NIS annually. For
instance, in 2020, there was a gap of NIS 3,705 between clusters 1−2 and 5−6; and a
gap of NIS 5,089 between clusters 1−2 and 7−8. The Ministry's differential budgeting
grants budgetary advantage to students from low clusters to minimize achievement gaps
in the educational system; however, schools' budgeting that originates from the local
authorities shrinks the differential budgeting and harms its ability to minimize these gaps.
As for households' expenditure on education, the average expenditure per student in
elementary education amongst the high clusters (8−10) is NIS 7,392 higher (more than
twice) than the expenditure amongst the low clusters (1−3). Similarly, the average
expenditure per student in junior high school amongst high clusters is NIS 7,356 higher
(twice as big) than the expenditure amongst low clusters (according to data from 2018).
It is doubtful that the differential addition of resources granted by the Ministry managed
to minimize the gaps significantly.

Transparency of Information on Schools' Budgetary Resources – despite the
government decisions: a decision made 11 years ago about the reconstruction of
management tools in the education system, and a decision made 9 years ago about the
transparency of education budgets − the development of a data reporting array, the
local authorities are required to use, has not been completed yet. By the audit end date,
September 2022, the data reporting array had not been established. Hence, neither the
Ministry of Education nor any other entity, including the public, has information on the
overall resources granted to each educational institution. This limits the information held
by the entity that plans the differential allocation of resources to educational institutions.
For the allocation to be effective, the educational institutions' different financial resources
must be considered.




                                                                                              | 225 |
           Differential Budgeting as a Tool for Minimizing Gaps in the Education System




          Changes in Students' Achievements in PISA Tests2 Since the Gap Minimizing
          Plan – in 2015−2018, there was a decline in the achievements of all Hebrew-speaking
          students (with a slight rise of 6 points amongst students of low socio-economic
          background in science literacy test). The most significant decline was among students of
          high socio-economic background (ranging between 5 points in reading literacy and 10
          points in science literacy). It was further found that the gaps between the grades of
          students from high socio-economic backgrounds and those from low socio-economic
          backgrounds were moderately minimized and even very moderately minimized in reading
          literacy − 3.4%. As for the Arabic-speaking students, the gaps in the PISA tests' grades
          increased considerably between students from high socio-economic backgrounds and
          students from low socio-economic backgrounds: the gap in reading literacy almost tripled
          (from 22 to 65 points), the gap in math literacy more than doubled (from 32 to 67
          points), and the gap in science literacy almost doubled (from 31 to 55 points). The gaps
          increased across all study disciplines due to a decline in the grades of students from a
          low socio-economic background and a rise in the grades of students from a high socio-
          economic background (except for science, in which the average grade of students from
          a high socio-economic background did not change). It should be noted that the
          participation rate of ultra-orthodox institutions for boys was minimal and
          unrepresentative. Thus, the gaps that were measured do not represent the whole
          influence of this sector.

          Evaluation of the Differential Budgeting Model – although the evaluations during
          the second and third years of model implementation (2015−2016 school year and
          2016−2017 school year) resulted in significant findings, such as the school principals
          were not sufficiently familiar with the model and believed that it could not possibly
          minimize gaps, since the cultivation index does not reflect the real difficulties the schools
          are facing, and although these findings justified to continue the evaluation in the
          following years, it was conducted only for two years. During these years, only some of
          the cultivation hours were allocated (35% during the second year and 55% during the
          third year); whereas, during the following years, more cultivation hours were gradually
          added until full implementation of the model was met in the 2018−2019 school year −
          the National Authority did not evaluate the model for Measurement and Evaluation in
          Education (RAMA) or by any other entity.

          Ranking of Ultra-Orthodox Elementary Schools According to the Cultivation
          Index – although the city of Bnei-Brak is part of a low socio-economic cluster (2), half
          of the ultra-orthodox elementary schools in Bnei Brak are ranked within the high
          cultivation quantile (1), which almost does not require cultivation, as opposed to 3% of
          all elementary schools in other local authorities in cluster 2. 82% of the ultra-orthodox


      2   PISA – Program for International Student Assessment – participated by Israel. The PISA Program is designated to
          enable each state to measure the outputs of its education system and to assess students' achievements based on
          an international, joint and agreed-upon point of view. The assessment is conducted every three years and is
          designated for 15-year-old students.



| 226 |
                                   Report of the State Comptroller of Israel | May 2023




                                                                                                 Abstract | Differential Budgeting as a Tool for Minimizing Gaps in the Education System
elementary schools in Bnei Brak are ranked amongst strong cultivation quintiles (1 & 2),
as opposed to 16% in all the other local authorities in cluster 2. Therefore, most ultra-
orthodox elementary schools in Bnei Brak (almost all elementary schools in Bnei Brak are
ultra-orthodox) are considered strong according to cultivation index and thus are not
entitled to a high rate of cultivation hours. This gap derives from the mode the cultivation
index of ultra-orthodox schools in Bnei Brak is generally calculated and the component
of parents' education in particular. This component is calculated according to the number
of years of study of the most educated parent. Bnei Brak refers to the fathers who have
studied in the Yeshiva (Jewish institution that focuses on studying religious texts) for
many years.

The Marom Program as Complementary to the Differential Budgeting Model –
the Pedagogical Administration has initiated and developed the Marom Program to
provide administrative, pedagogical, and organizational long-term support to schools that
rank high on the cultivation index in addition to the allocation of additional resources to
these schools as part of the differential budgeting model. The program's overall budget
between September 2015 to August 2022 was NIS 140 million. However, in the
2018−2019 school year, which was the last year that schools could join the program,
59% of the elementary and junior high schools from the weakest quintile (quintile 5) did
not participate in the program. Thus, most schools that needed the Marom Program the
most − 423 out of 711 schools in the 2018−2019 school year − did not participate. It
was found that the Marom Program did not provide the needed solutions to most of the
schools considered as wick according to the cultivation index − which were the main
target population of the differential budgeting model. Moreover, the Ministry of Education
did not establish an internal team or form a perception regarding a comprehensive,
systemic solution for schools with a low socio-economic population, as was suggested
by the inter-ministerial team in 2014. Such a perception including budgetary,
pedagogical, and organizational measures that could have led to the allocation of a more
significant number of hours according to the differential budgeting model, meeting the
objective of minimizing the gaps between the achievements of low socio-economic
students and those of high socio-economic background.




Progressive Allocation of Additional Standard Hours – the additional standard
hours (that include cultivation hours and other baskets) in elementary education in the
Jewish sector increased the basic allocation (of weekly hours per class) by 5 hours for
the medium-strong cultivation quintile (from 34 hours to 39 hours) and by up to 11 hours
for the weak cultivation quintile (from 37 hours to 48 hours). The Arab sector increased
the basic allocation by 4 hours for the medium-strong cultivation quintile (32 to 36 hours)
and 8 hours for the weak cultivation quintile (35 to 43 hours). In junior high schools, the
additional standard hours in the Jewish sector increased the basic allocation by 14 hours
for the medium-strong cultivation quintile (from 35 to 49 hours) and by up to 26 hours
for the weak cultivation quintile (from 35 to 61 hours), and in the Arab sector by 10


                                                                                           | 227 |
           Differential Budgeting as a Tool for Minimizing Gaps in the Education System




          hours for the medium-strong cultivation quintile (from 33 to 43 hours) and by up to 18
          hours for the weak cultivation quintile (from 33 to 51 hours) (according to data from
          2019−2020(.

          The Impact of Additional Cultivation Hours on the Allocation of the Ministry of
          Education's Budget to Junior High Schools – unlike elementary education, in junior
          high schools, most of the gap in favor of the weak cultivation quintile, as opposed to the
          strong cultivation quintile, was created after the implementation of the plan began, and
          the plan increased it by 21.4% over the years (from 11.6% in the 2013−2014 school
          year to 33% in the 2019−2020 school year). In other words, the implementation of the
          plan caused 65% of the progressive gap, and thus, the plan's impact on the gap in favor
          of the weak cultivation quintile, as opposed to the strong cultivation quintile, was very
          significant. In addition, the average budgetary addition per student in the weak
          cultivation quintile, created by the increased gap in its favor, is about 21% of the budget
          granted without the increase.




      Key Recommendations
          Allocation of Additional Cultivation Hours to Improve the Achievements of
          Students from Low Socio-Economic Backgrounds – given the gaps in national
          allocation of educational resources between low socio-economic students and high socio-
          economic students, despite the implementation of the gaps minimizing plan based on the
          differential budgeting model, and given the gaps between the student's academic
          achievements reflected in the Meitzav exams, and especially in light of the significant gaps
          reflected in the results of the international PISA tests − it is recommended that the Ministry
          of Education consider the extent to which the addition of cultivation hours, as part of the
          budgeting model, can improve the academic performance of low socio-economic students.
          Moreover, it is recommended that the model be compared with models adopted by other
          countries. The Ministry of Education should identify the past measures that generated the
          most significant added value to the improvement in the achievements of low socio-
          economic students and the minimization of the gaps between them and high socio-
          economic students, and focus on these measures alongside newer measures and plans to
          use the public resources most efficiently. Furthermore, it is recommended that the Ministry
          of Education, together with the Ministry of Finance and representatives of local authorities,
          form a multi-annual plan to comprehensively respond to budgetary, pedagogical,
          administrative, and organizational issues in low-socio-economic status of schools with
          different sectors of the population.

          Maintaining the Progressiveness of Cultivation Hours Allocation to Schools and
          Their Original Designation in Light of the "Integration & Containment Reform"
          – it is recommended that to maintain the level of progressiveness in the allocation of


| 228 |
                                    Report of the State Comptroller of Israel | May 2023




                                                                                                    Abstract | Differential Budgeting as a Tool for Minimizing Gaps in the Education System
resources to schools, according to their socio-economic status, as set in the gap minimizing
plan, the Ministry of Education allocate to the schools cultivation hours according to their
original designation while searching for an alternative funding source for the Integration
Reform, or alternately, refrain from deducting a fixed rate of the cultivation hours in favor
of the Integration Reform, but rather apply a progressive rate which becomes lower
gradually according to the cultivation quintile. It is further recommended that the Ministry
of Education develop a mechanism for an ongoing updating of the necessary annual
addition to the quota of cultivation hours in elementary and junior high schools, according
to the rise in the number of students, to prevent erosion of the rate of cultivation hours
out of the total number of standard hours allocated to the schools.

Transparency of Local Authorities' Education Budgets and Reviewing Their
Impact and the Impact of Households' Expenditure on Education on the Gaps
in National Allocation of Resources – the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Interior,
and Ministry of Finance should implement the government decision made 11 years ago
regarding the reconstruction of managerial tools in the education system and the decision
from 9 years ago regarding transparency of education budgets. It is recommended that
the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Interior collaborate and form a framework for
reporting local authorities' data required at the level of individual educational institutions.
As part of reviewing the differential budgeting model, it is recommended that the Ministry
of Education, in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, the Federation of Local
Authorities in Israel, and the local authorities, study and analyze the regressive impact of
local authorities' budgets and households' expenditure on education on the gaps in national
allocation of resources amongst students from different socio-economic backgrounds and
consider measures to minimize them.

Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Implementation of the Differential
Budgeting Model – it is recommended that the Ministry of Education evaluate the
implementation of the differential budgeting model and the impact of the additional
cultivation hours on gap minimization from the 2014−2015 school year; form a suitable
policy to increase the effectiveness of the model and the utilization of cultivation hours; set
quantitative objectives, according to the evaluation findings, to ensure improvement of
achievements and minimization of gaps and measures needed for this purpose; implement
the updated plan and follow up on its implementation and accomplishments. It is
recommended that the Ministry of Education consistently supervise the plan until its end
(or until it is fully implemented in the education system), summative evaluate the plan, and
ensure the findings are considered when forming a follow-up policy.

Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Marom Program, its Improvement, and
Creating a Link Between the Program and the Differential Budgeting Model – it
is recommended that the Ministry of Education clarifies the criteria to participate in the
Marom Program and the program's objectives, prioritizing schools with low socio-economic
students, and measure its accomplishments. It is recommended that the Ministry of
Education emphasize the link between the program and the allocation of cultivation hours
through the differential budgeting model. Based on these objectives and measures, it is


                                                                                              | 229 |
           Differential Budgeting as a Tool for Minimizing Gaps in the Education System




          recommended that the Ministry of Education form a comparative evaluation format
          regarding the contribution of the updated program to schools, including a unified external
          evaluation for all participating schools, to be used as a reference for the program's
          principles and directions and as a tool detecting the implementation mode by the schools
          and its contribution to their function. It is further recommended that following the
          reinforcement of the linkage between the Marom Program and the allocation of cultivation
          hours as part of the differential budgeting model, the Ministry of Education perform a joint
          evaluation of the two processes as complementary processes, as it started doing with the
          first two RAMA evaluations.




| 230 |
                                          Report of the State Comptroller of Israel | May 2023




                                                                                                       Abstract | Differential Budgeting as a Tool for Minimizing Gaps in the Education System
    Enlarging Cultivation Basket in Elementary and Junior High
    Education




*   Hours designated for educational institutions that the outline change will severely harm.




                                                                                                 | 231 |
            Differential Budgeting as a Tool for Minimizing Gaps in the Education System




      Summary
      The most recent plan of the Ministry of Education (2014) to minimize gaps between students
      is based on the differential budgeting model of teaching hours to improve the performance of
      schools that are of low socio-economic status and to minimize gaps between students from
      different sectors of the population and from different socio-economic backgrounds (mostly in
      elementary and junior high schools where the model is implemented). According to the audit's
      findings, about eight years after the plan's implementation began, the Ministry of Education
      still has not met its objectives. Despite the differential allocation of budgets, the budgetary
      gaps have not been bridged. Thus, the Ministry's reliance on differential allocation of budgets
      according to the student's socio-economic status is questionable.

      The Marom Program, to provide ongoing support to low socio-economic schools and advance
      them at the administrative, pedagogical, and organizational levels and to complement the
      differential budgeting model, has not provided the necessary solutions to most of these
      schools, which were the main target population of the differential budgeting model.

      It is recommended that the Ministry of Education cooperate with the representatives of local
      authorities, the educational networks, and the other ownerships on schools in the different
      sectors to form a multi-annual plan to comprehensively respond, including budgetary,
      pedagogical, administrative, and organizational aspects, to the low cultivation quintile schools
      in the various sectors of the population.

      To increase the effectiveness of the differential budgeting model, the differential allocation of
      resources to the schools with low socio-economic student it is recommended to consider the
      school's different financial resources, including resources provided by the local authorities and
      households. At the same time, the Ministry of Education should identify its past measures −
      pedagogical, administrative, and organizational − that generated maximal added value to the
      improvement of the achievements of low socio-economic students and to minimization of gaps
      between them and high socio-economic students. It should focus on these measures,
      alongside new measures and plans that will be formed, to utilize the public resources of the
      education system and its expertise most effectively.




| 232 |
